Top 4 Signs Your Alternator May Need Replacing
Symptom:
Dimming lights, malfunctioning electrical accessories, dash
warning lights, hear unusual noises from the alternator, or a
weak or dead battery.
Cause:
The Battery, Alternator and Alternator Drive Belt will all need
to be inspected and properly tested to determine the exact
cause of the symptoms.

Alternator

The Solution:
Replacement of your Alternator and/or Battery.
Dash Warning Light

Your Battery and Alternator should be tested to determine
the cause of the warning light or low voltage reading.
1) Lights dimming / Electrical accessories malfunctioning - If your

3) A weak or dead Battery - A partially discharged (weak) battery, or a dead

headlights and/or dash lights are dim or do not appear as bright as normal with
the engine running this could be an indication of a defective alternator. Similarly,
if any of theelectrical accessories on your vehicle such as the power seats, or
power windows are operating slower than normal with the engine running this may
indicate an alternator that is not charging properly and may need replacement.
2) Dash Warning Lights - Most vehicles have a warning light in the instrument
cluster to indicate if there is a malfunction in the charging system. The light may say
“ALT’ or “GEN” for alternator or generator or there may be a battery symbol, and on
some vehicles, an actual message may appear stating “Check Battery and Charging
System”. These warnings can all be indications of a malfunctioning alternator. Some
vehicles use a voltmeter in the instrument cluster if the voltmeter displays less than
12 volts for an extended period of time with the engine running this is also a good
indication of a possible alternator problem. Your battery andalternator should be
tested to determine the cause of the warning light or low voltage reading.

battery can be good indicators of a malfunctioning alternator or a defective battery.
Again, you should have the battery and alternator properly tested.
4) Unusual noises - With the engine running any unusual noises from the
alternator may indicate the need for replacement. High pitched whining sounds,
squealing, any metallic noises coming from the alternator usually indicate a
mechanical failure of the alternator and replacement will be needed.
Note: Squealing noises from the alternator can also indicate problems with
the alternator drive belt which should be inspected.

Check out the video for this issue by scanning the
QR code or head to: https://youtu.be/NH7CcMR0E8E

TECHNICAL SUPPORT

800-228-9672
ASE Certified Technicians are Standing by 7 days a week.

motorcarparts.com

