Application: All vehicles with clutch pulleys
The Symptoms:
•

Noisy, Whining and Squealing noises from the drive
belt area

The Cause:
•

Bad Alternator Clutch Pulley

The Solution:
•

Replace the Alternator Clutch Pulley

Clutch Pulley and the end cover which is used to
keep debris and moisture from getting into the
pulley and damaging the bearings inside.

Faulty belts and tensioners will shorten the life of the alternator clutch pully.
What is the purpose of an alternator clutch pulley?
When a vehicle has a loud, constant squealing noise
while driving, it is essential to check both the belt and tensioner.
If the belt and tensioner are both good, the issue may lie with
the alternator pulley. On average, pulleys last about 60,000
miles, but faulty belts and tensioners will also shorten the
life of the pulley. It is critical to inspect these parts routinely.

Visible in the above cut-out of the clutch pulley,
there are small needle bearings. These needle bearings help
to eliminate belt chirping sounds when the engine slows down
quickly. When the clutch pulley is functioning correctly, it allows

the belt to turn the alternator in one direction and spins freely
in the opposite direction. If the pulley is bad, it can lock up or
spin free in both ways, not allowing the alternator to charge.
The clutch pulley is designed to alleviate stress on the belt
drive system and the components within that system, allow
the alternator rotor to coast when the engine is shut down, and
reduce belt slippage. The clutch pulley will allow a longer life of
the tensioner and the bearing’s in the alternator and water pump.
When a clutch pulley has failed, engine speed
fluctuations can be passed directly to the alternator and drive
belt system. This places stress on the drive belt, tensioner, and
alternator and can shorten the lifespan of these components
as the drive belt is effectively trying to speed up and slow down
the alternator in relation to engine speed changes. With the
overrunning clutch pulley, only accelerating engine torque is
applied to the alternator. If the clutch pulley has failed, it should
be replaced with the correct pulley type for the serviced vehicle.

TECHNICAL SUPPORT

800-228-9672
ASE Certified Technicians are Standing by 7 days a week.

motorcarparts.com

