Winter Preparedness
Winter Maintenance and Testing for Batteries
No one wants to get stranded with a dead battery at any time
of the year, especially during winter with snow, ice, and freezing
temperatures. So now that winter is here, this is a great time
to perform some maintenance and testing on your vehicle’s
battery.
While batteries can fail at any time, cold temperatures can make
the engine more difficult to start. The chemical reaction in a
battery to produce current slows down in colder temperatures,
making it more difficult for the battery to perform during cold
weather.
First, start with a visual inspection of the battery. Look for signs
of apparent damage, such as a cracked battery case or housing
or leaking electrolyte. Any of these conditions would indicate
replacement of the battery is needed.
Make sure the battery is securely mounted. If the battery is not
secure, this can be a safety hazard and lead to internal battery
damage from excessive road shock and vibration.
The initial inspection should also include a visual inspection and
check of the battery cables and connections for looseness and
any signs of corrosion, oxidation, or damage, such as frayed
wires or worn connectors and battery terminals.
Next, we should test the battery state of charge with a DVOM or
battery tester.
A battery with a state of charge of less than 75% will need to be
recharged first before any further testing is performed.
Measure State of Charge with the Ignition and all electrical
accessories off.
Suppose the battery has a state of charge over 75%. In that
case, we can proceed with final testing of the battery with a high
current load type battery tester or an electronic conductance
battery tester to determine the overall state of health of the
battery and make a final determination as to whether it needs
to be replaced.
Some statistics indicate that 1 of 4 batteries in service needs to
be replaced. As a general rule, any battery 5 or more years old
is probably close to the end of its life.

TECHNICAL SUPPORT: 800-228-9672
ASE Certified Technicians are Standing by 7 days a week.

Battery State of Charge

