Application: 1994-2002 Dodge Ram 2500/3500 with a 		
			
5.9L Diesel Engine.

The Problem:
•

Starter failure Leading to a No-Start or No-Crank
condition. No-Start and No-Crank conditions can
often be confused.
Burnt Starter Commutator from
Over-cranking of the Starter

Always allow your starter to rest for 2 minutes between attempts to start your truck.
When your starter fails, it is essential to identify what caused the unit
to fail. If the cause of failure is an external force and not the starter
itself, this could lead to the replacement unit failing. It is important to
understand the difference between a NO-START condition and a NOCRANK condition; these are very often confused.
A NO-START condition is when the vehicle engine cranks but will not
start and is generally caused by ignition or a fuel/air problem.
(Note: An illuminated Check Engine Light, or Malfunction Indicator Lamp may
be a clue there are problems in the Fuel System or Glow Plug System.)

A NO-CRANK condition happens after turning the key to the start
position, and nothing much happens, maybe just a click.
Sometimes when your vehicle does not start, the starter may not be at
fault.

Fluid Leaks The number one cause of starter failure on this truck is oil, coolant,
or fuel that gets drawn inside the starter. Your new starter has a

protective coating that can help slow fluid contamination of the
starter, but the coating will not stop fluid contamination in conditions
where the leaking is severe. All fluid leaks should be fixed properly to
extend the life of your starter, truck, and for your safety.
Replacing a starter when your truck has a fluid leak can cause the
replacement to fail prematurely.

Fuel and Glow Plug System Issues Another common issue with many Dodge Ram Pick-ups with 5.9L diesel
engines can stem from fuel or glow plug system issues resulting in a
“No Start” condition. Cranking the starter for a prolonged period will
overheat the starter, resulting in starter failure. Once the starter has
failed due to over-cranking, this can be called a “No Crank” condition.
To ensure your starter lasts, never crank it for more than 5 seconds
at a time. Always allow your starter to rest for 2 minutes between
attempts to start your truck. A starter that smells “Burnt” or appears
to have burnt or overheated electrical connections at the starter
solenoid or labels attached to the starter that appear burnt all indicate
over-cranking of the engine and starter.

TECHNICAL SUPPORT

800-228-9672
ASE Certified Technicians are Standing by 7 days a week.

motorcarparts.com

