		Application: 1999-2005 Ford F-250, F-350, F-450, 		
				
F-550 Super Duty 4-Wheel Drive Trucks
Symptoms:
Wheel Bearing noise, loss of 4-wheel drive operation,
ABS system malfunction, illuminated ABS warning
light, or premature failure of the hub assembly.
Causes:
Improper Needle Bearing lubrication, O-ring damage
during install, or removal of the replacement ABS
Sensor.
Solutions:
Proper lubrication and installation of a replacement
hub assembly.

Ford Super Duty 4WD
Wheel Hub Assembly

When installing front wheel hub bearing assemblies on 1999-2005 Ford F-250 through F-550
Super Duty 4 Wheel Drive Trucks there are 3 important things you should be aware of:
Tip 1.) Needle Bearing Lubrication:
It is necessary to apply a liberal amount of high-temperature wheel
bearing grease to the inner needle bearing of the replacement hub bearing
assembly prior to installation, use only premium high-temperature wheel
bearing grease. Failure to properly lubricate the inner needle bearing during
installation can result in wheel bearing noise and premature failure of the hub
bearing assembly.
Tip 2.) O-ring Seal:
Be sure not to damage the O-ring seal located near the base of the mounting
flange on the hub assembly. NOTE: This o-ring is usually yellow or yellow/
black. Lightly grease this o-ring just prior to installation. This will help it slide
into the axle housing during installation. As you slide the hub assembly into
the axle housing, care should be taken to make sure the o-ring stays safely in
its groove. If the o-ring is damaged, this will cause a vacuum leak and loss of
4-wheel drive operation on these trucks.

Tip 3.) ABS Wheel Speed Sensor Harness:
WARNING do not remove the ABS wheel speed sensor harness from the
replacement hub bearing assembly during installation. The ABS harness
provided with a new replacement hub bearing assembly is specifically
calibrated to this hub bearing assembly and must not be removed. Removing
the sensor could cause a malfunction of the Anti-Lock Brake System and an
illuminated ABS warning light.

Damaged O-Ring

Properly Greased Needle Bearing

TECHNICAL SUPPORT

800-228-9672
ASE Certified Technicians are Standing by 7 days a week.

motorcarparts.com

