		Application: Many GM Vehicles Equipped with a 			
				
Hydro-Boost Brake System
Symptom:
Brake pedal moves or self-applies during steering fulllock turns or nearly full-lock turns
Cause:
The Hydro-Boost internal dump valve is not seated
correctly due to contamination in the steering system
Solution:
Replace the Hydro-Boost unit

Be Sure to Flush the Entire Hydraulic Power Steering System
GM vehicles with a Hydro-Boost System may experience the
brake pedal moving downward or self-applying during steering
full-lock turns or near full lock turns. This can be caused by
the Hydro-Boost internal dump valve not seating correctly
due to contamination in the steering system. The Hydro-Boost
unit is not tolerant to certain types of contaminants that
may be present in the steering system. Therefore, when this
condition occurs, the Hydro-Boost unit is recommended to
be replaced following the manufacturer’s service procedures.
IMPORTANT:
Before replacing the Hydro-Boost unit, the entire hydraulic
power steering system (including power steering pump, lines,
cooler, and gearbox) must be flushed to prevent the condition
from reoccurring. Follow the manufacturer’s service procedures.

If the vehicle comes back exhibiting the same condition within
20k miles of the previous repair, it is recommended that the
entire hydraulic power steering system (including power
steering pump, lines, cooler, and gearbox) be replaced.
Notes:
• Replacing the Hydro-Boost unit alone may not be enough to cure this
braking condition.
• When flushing the power steering system, use only the correct
power steering fluid for the vehicle. Do not use aftermarket
power steering “Flushes.” Failure to follow this guideline could
result in erratic operation/damage to the power steering system.
For more information, please reference the GM Bulletin.
No. PIT3665J Published date: 06/26/2020
Click the link below to view the bulletin:
https://static.nhtsa.gov/odi/tsbs/2020/MC-10178353-9999.pdf

TECHNICAL SUPPORT

800-228-9672
ASE Certified Technicians are Standing by 7 days a week.

motorcarparts.com

