		Application: 2002-2010 Ford Explorer, Explorer Sport 		
		
Trac, Lincoln Aviator, and Mercury Mountaineer.
Symptom:
Occasional rubbing or squealing noise due to metal-tometal contact coming from the wheel area after wheel
hub bearing replacement. The noise will occur when
driving and may be more prominent during slow speed
turning.

Notice the shiny area on the CV Housing which
indicates touching/contact with the Hub Bearing
outer race and Bearing Retaining Clip.

Cause:
The Hub is not fully pressed/seated into the Bearing
during installation.

Note: Components required for
a typical GEN 1 Hub Bearing
replacement include, a Bearing, Hub,
Retaining Ring, and Axle Nut.

Solution:
Make sure the Hub is completely and fully seated into
the Bearing when pressing the Hub into the Bearing
and Knuckle assembly.

This problem can also occur on other vehicles with GEN 1 Hub Bearings.
If the Hub is not fully seated when pressed into the Bearing during
installation, the Drive Axle/CV Joint can contact the outer Bearing Race and
Retaining Ring, causing a rubbing noise when driving, which can lead to the
misdiagnosis of a defective Bearing.
When pressing in the Bearing and Hub, a Bearing Press with a minimum of
20-ton capacity should be used to ensure the Bearing and Hub are correctly
installed and fully seated. The correct press adaptors and press support plates
should be used to properly press and support the Bearing, Hub, and Knuckle
assembly during installation. Make sure to completely seat the Hub when
pressing it into the Bearing. Torque all mounting bolts and the Drive Axle Nut
to proper specifications with a Torque Wrench during final assembly on the
vehicle.
Note: This problem can also occur on other vehicles with GEN 1 – press- in type Hub
Bearings if the correct tools, equipment, and procedures are not followed.

This Hub is not fully
seated into the Bearing.

This Hub is fully seated
after being pressed into
the Bearing properly.

TECHNICAL SUPPORT

800-228-9672
ASE Certified Technicians are Standing by 7 days a week.

motorcarparts.com

