		Application: Vehicles with LIN-Controlled Alternators
Symptom:
Appears as though the Alternator is charging at a
lower voltage level.
The Solution:
Correctly test the vehicles LIN alternator charging
system to identify any issues that may require service
or replacement.

Some late-model vehicles use a LIN-controlled alternator.
LIN is an acronym for Local Interconnect Network; this refers to a type
of communications network where bi-directional communication will
take place through a single wire between a “Module or Computer” and
the alternator. This will allow the module or computer to control the
alternator and the charging system strategy.
A part of the charging system strategy on many modern vehicles is to
reduce or even turn off the alternator output when it is not needed. For
example, if the battery is near a full state of charge and there is a very
low electrical load (lights, climate control, windshield wipers, etc., are
off), the alternator will be commanded to charge at a very low level.
When testing the charging system on vehicles with LIN-controlled
alternators, if the battery is fully charged and under low or no
electrical load conditions, the alternator may appear to not be
charging or charging at a very low rate due to this commanded
strategy.

There are two critical steps to follow when testing the charging system
on these vehicles.
1)

Add some electrical load by simply turning on the headlights
and high beams, placing the climate control system blower on
high, and turning on the rear defroster.

2)

Raise the engine RPM to Approx. 1,500 – 2,000, which will force
the alternator to charge at a higher rate. If the alternator
still appears not to be charging, a scan tool should be 		
connected to the vehicle before replacing the alternator. Any
charging system-related fault codes or LIN communication
error faults with the alternator should be addressed first.

TECHNICAL SUPPORT

800-228-9672
ASE Certified Technicians are Standing by 7 days a week.

motorcarparts.com

