What are the signs that you need to check your negative
side electrical circuits, or ground circuits?
Symptoms:
No – crank conditions, slow or sluggish cranking, no – charge
or low charge conditions, overcharge conditions.
Cause:
Problems with the ground, or the negative side of the starting or charging system electrical circuit.
The Solution:
Verify the condition of all of the vehicle ground circuits.

It is critical to verify the condition
of all of the vehicle ground circuits
Have you had any of these questions?
• Why wont my starter crank?
• Why is my starter cranking slow or sluggish?
• Why won’t my battery charge?
• Why is my battery overcharged?
The Real Estate professionals often like to say that “The 3 most important things in Real
Estate are Location, Location, and Location.”
Well when it comes to vehicle starting and charging system problems as well as other
vehicle electrical system problems it could be said that the 3 most important things are
Grounds, Grounds, and Grounds. The ground or negative side of any electrical circuit is
no less important and just as critical as the positive side of the circuit. The performance
and operation of any electrical circuit and the components within that circuit will be
greatly affected by problems on the ground portion of that circuit.
For example problems on the ground side of the starting and charging system will often
result in no – crank conditions, slow or sluggish cranking, no – charge or low charge
conditions, overcharge conditions, and can cause premature failure of replacement
Starters and Alternators.

Therefore it is critical to verify the condition of all of the vehicle ground circuits
whenever there are starting or charging system problems on a vehicle.
This should start with a careful and complete visual inspection of the main ground cable
from the battery negative connection to the cable terminating connection at the engine
or chassis depending on the vehicle. Next a good visual inspection should be performed
on the accessory or auxiliary grounds. These are the smaller diameter and typically
shorter wires from the battery negative terminal to the vehicle body or chassis. Also
look for any ground straps from the engine to the body or engine to the chassis and
carefully inspect these. Try to get your eyes and hands on all of these various ground
connections and wires to inspect for loose connections, corrosion, oxidation and rust,
frayed or broken wires, damaged connectors, evidence of overheating or arcing, and
connections that may have been inadvertently left off or damaged during previous
repairs.
If there are no obvious visual problems detected a voltage drop test should be performed
on these ground circuits to locate excessive resistance in the circuits. The advantage of
the voltage drop test is that the test is performed on a live circuit with current flowing;
it is a “load test” of the circuit. The voltage drop test can often locate problems which
cannot be easily seen during the visual inspection.

TECHNICAL SUPPORT

800-228-9672
ASE Certified Technicians are Standing by 7 days a week.

motorcarparts.com

