Fault P0299 May Not Be Caused By The Turbocharger
Symptoms:
Under-boost causing a loss in vehicle performance and an
illuminated orange MIL (Malfunction Indicator lamp) with the
P0299 fault code stored. (Note: This issue can apply to many
turbocharged vehicles.)

Intercooler

Cause:
The misdiagnosis of under-boost symptoms leads to the
return of turbochargers that have no issues and do not need
replacing.
The Solution:
Before replacing the turbocharger, be sure to perform a
complete diagnosis and identify the true cause of the issue,
as it may not be the turbo itself.

Carefully inspect all duct work for air leaks, loose
connections, and damage which will affect boost
and could cause the PO299 fault code.

Many components and conditions could cause a P0299 Code
One of the reasons for a P0299 fault code is the turbo may be experiencing
low boost output. The ECU looks for a specific boost range, and when the
ECU detects the low boost, it sets a P0299 code. This code will illuminate the
orange MIL (Malfunction Indicator Lamp) in the instrument cluster and may
put the vehicle in limp mode.
From a diagnostic perspective, many things can affect the turbocharger’s
performance: however, the turbocharger is rarely the source of the problem.
Often various sensors, control valves, excessive internal crankcase vapors, or
even faulty PCV valves can prompt codes for over and under boost conditions.
P0299 Under Performance (Boost):
The engine management system is calibrated to the expected level of
boost pressure depending on specific engine requirements. A P0299 code
indicates booster pressure is below the expected engine requirements. Many
components and conditions could cause a PO299 code, such as a restricted air
filter, blocked catalytic converter, exhaust leaks, leaks in the intake air system
ducts/hoses, or faulty MAP, BARO, or Boost Pressure Sensors. Why? If the

engine can’t ingest or expel enough air, the turbo will have problems creating
boost.
On the control side, a solenoid can fail and cause the actuator for the
wastegate to stay open. Another possible problem could be a failure of the
PCV system, which can allow excessive crankcase vapors and oil to enter the
engine and turbocharger, leading to excessive smoke from the tailpipe.
Leaks in the plumbing and intercooler can cause a P0299 code and often
occur at the couplings between charge pipes. Finding the leaks can be difficult
due to the packaging of the intercooler behind a bumper.
Tips: Check vehicle service information for P0299 and possible ECU
programming updates.
A smoke machine can help find the Leaks in the plumbing and intercooler.
Refer to and carefully follow the vehicle manufactures diagnostic procedures
to accurately diagnose a PO299 fault code as there can be differences in
turbocharged systems and diagnostic procedures on different vehicles.

TECHNICAL SUPPORT

800-228-9672
ASE Certified Technicians are Standing by 7 days a week.

motorcarparts.com

