Application: All vehicles with Calipers containing
			
Phenolic Pistons.
The Problem:
•

Phenolic Pistons should never be reused or
reclaimed from used parts as they can cause
premature brake caliper failure.

Corroded Phenolic Piston

Used Phenolic Piston

New Phenolic Piston

Cracked Phenolic Piston

Reclaimed Phenolic Pistons can lead to Brake Failure.
What does a Brake Caliper Piston do?
The piston in your brake caliper is one of the critical components. It
is responsible for forcing the brake pads and brake rotor into contact,
which in turn brings your vehicle to a stop.

cracking without breaking down the phenolic piston itself, which
renders the piston unusable. For this reason, Motorcar Parts of America
uses only brand new Phenolic Pistons in every remanufactured Brake
Caliper we produce.

What is a Phenolic Piston?
A phenolic piston is a caliper piston that has been made using phenolic
plastic. Phenolic plastic is exceptionally strong, making it the perfect
material for use in brake calipers as it resists heat, rust, and oxidation.

Phenolic Piston Failures:
A few different things can happen when a phenolic piston is affected
by unseen internal or external damage.

Why shouldn’t Phenolic Pistons be Reused?
While phenolic pistons are high strength and capable of withstanding
extreme pressure and temperatures, they are also susceptible to
possible heat damage and stress cracking over time. It is incredibly
challenging to determine or identify any heat damage or stress

•
•
•

Uneven brake pad wear
Heatshield damage can lead a phenolic piston to break down
under excessive heat exposure.
A cracked piston can cause a loss of pressure resulting in
complete brake failure.

Note: Reusing phenolic pistons can lead to brake failure and possible injury. Motorcar
Parts of America does not recommend using any parts with reclaimed phenolic pistons.

TECHNICAL SUPPORT

800-228-9672
ASE Certified Technicians are Standing by 7 days a week.

motorcarparts.com

