Battery Testing – 3 Steps
The battery is the heart of a vehicle’s electrical system and
is often overlooked in troubleshooting a charging or starting
system problem. Many starting and charging system
problems can be traced to a weak, undercharged, incorrect,
or failed battery. An undercharged or defective battery can
also cause premature starter or alternator failure as these
components are forced to work harder under the strain of a
weak or end-of-service life battery. Additionally, an incorrect
battery that has been installed may not meet the vehicle
manufacturer’s specifications for cold cranking amps, amp
hour rating, or reserve capacity and may not be the correct
type of battery for the vehicle, which can also lead to
starting and charging system problems.

3. Final Battery Test: A final determination of the battery’s
overall health needs to be made. This is critical because
it is possible and not uncommon for a battery to be fully
charged but fail testing due to a weak or dead cell or
because the battery has deteriorated. Final testing of
the battery can be accomplished by using a dedicated
battery tester to perform a load or conductance test of the
battery.

It is important to note that replacing the starter or
alternator without properly inspecting and testing the
battery may cause a misdiagnosis of a starting or charging
system problem. This can lead to frustration because
the underlying problem is missed, and the vehicle is not
completely repaired.

Proper testing of the battery will include these 3 steps:
1.

Visual inspection: Look for any physical damage to the
battery, such as a cracked housing or evidence of leaking
electrolyte. These conditions would require immediate
replacement of the battery. It is also important to verify
the battery is securely mounted, and the fastening
hardware is in good condition. Check and confirm that all
Battery connections are clean and tight. Part of the visual
inspection also verifies that the battery is the correct
battery for the vehicle. It must be the correct type of
battery for the vehicle – a conventional flooded lead acid
battery, an AGM battery, or an EFB, depending on the
vehicle manufacturer’s specifications. It must have the
correct capacity or rating for the vehicle.

2. Measure the Battery State of Charge: With most
automobiles and light duty trucks having sealed
maintenance-free batteries now, a digital multimeter
can quickly determine the battery state of charge. The
battery state of charge should measure 75% or greater.
If the battery state of charge is less than 75%, the
battery must be charged first to at least 75% before
moving on to the final battery test.

TECHNICAL SUPPORT: 800-228-9672
ASE Certified Technicians are Standing by 7 days a week.

Measure the Battery State of Charge
with the Ignition and all accessories off.

Battery State of Charge

Note: These voltages are for a Battery at 70 degrees F. or above.
AGM Batteries will measure slightly higher when fully charged.

