Proper Installation of the Drive Axle Nut During Hub Bearing Replacement
One of the most critical aspects of Wheel Hub Bearing
replacement is the proper tightening of the Drive Axle Nut.
Correct tightening of the Drive Axle Nut sets the appropriate
preload and ensures accurate internal clearances on many Hub
Bearings during installation.
If the Drive Axle Nut is under-tightened, this can create
insufficient preload on the Bearing and excessive internal
clearances, resulting in Bearing noise complaints, premature
wear, and failure of the Hub Bearing. An under-tightened Drive
Axle Nut can also affect the operation of the ABS Wheel Speed
Sensor on some vehicles resulting in the illumination of the
ABS warning light in the Instrument Cluster.
If the Drive Axle Nut is over-tightened, this will create excessive
preload on the Bearing and insufficient internal Bearing
clearances, which can also result in Bearing noise complaints
and excessive heat buildup in the Bearing, premature wear, and
failure of the Hub Bearing.
The correct method for tightening the Drive Axle Nut is to:
1)
Refer to the vehicle manufacturer service information
for the Hub Bearing replacement procedures and the
torque specifications for the Drive Axle Nut.
2)
Using an accurate Torque Wrench, torque the Drive Axle
Nut to the correct specifications.
3)
After torquing the Drive Axle Nut, stake the edge of
the Drive Axle Nut into the Drive Axle slot and/or install
a new Cotter Pin into the Drive Axle. (if applicable)
Note: Be aware that on some applications, the vehicle manufacturer
requires that the Drive Axle Nut is not to be reused and is replaced with
a new Drive Axle Nut anytime it is removed. Refer to the vehicle service
info for clarification.

TECHNICAL SUPPORT

An Impact Wrench should never be used to tighten the Drive
Axle Nut. The Impact Wrench is too imprecise and cannot
accurately control the amount of torque applied. This will result
in an under or over-tightened Drive Axle Nut. The vibration,
“hammering,” and shock from an Impact Wrench can also
damage the Axle Nut, Drive Axle, and Hub Bearing.
Some Key Points for Hub Bearing Replacement
• Clean the vehicle bearing mounting surface of all rust
and corrosion to ensure proper seating and alignment of
the new Hub Bearing.
• Torque all Hub Bearing Mounting Bolts to vehicle
manufacturers’ specifications using a Torque Wrench.
• Torque the Drive Axle Nut to vehicle manufacturer
specifications using a Torque Wrench.
• An Impact Wrench should Never be used to tighten the
Drive Axle Nut.
• Properly route and secure the ABS Wheel Speed Sensor
Cables to prevent contact and damage from the Drive
Axle and other rotating driveline components.
• Torque the Wheel Lug Nuts to vehicle manufacturer
specifications using a Torque Wrench.

800-228-9672
ASE Certified Technicians are Standing by 7 days a week.

motorcarparts.com

