Application: Many Ford Vehicles
(This issue spans a large number of vehicle models and years.)

Mounting Surface Corrosion

Symptoms:
Starter failure caused by a contaminated or corroded starter
mounting surface.
Causes:
• Corrosion
• Oil
• Dirt and Debris
• Paint Build-Up
The Solution:
Remove the starter and clean the starter mounting surfaces.
Replace the starter if necessary.

Burnt Armature

Avoid starter failure by maintaining clean, corrosion-free mounting surfaces for proper performance.
Many Ford vehicles are known for high corrosion and oil contamination at the
starter mounting surfaces. All of the corrosion and oil seen on the starter’s
mounting surface will also be found on the engine’s starter mounting surface,
causing a poor or faulty starter ground, leading to excessive voltage drop in
the starter circuit.

Resistance in the starter circuit is often caused by old battery cables or poor
connections at the battery, starter, or engine block (grounds). The bottom line
is if the starter motor can’t turn the engine fast enough, it has to endure the
loading and unloading of each compression stroke. Resistance will damage
the starter, causing it to fail.

Low voltage will damage the starter’s internal components such as the
brushes and the armature, shortening their life and making it hard to start
the vehicle. Because most starters are grounded through the engine block,
if there is excessive oil contamination, corrosion, or paint build up on the
starter mounting surface, the starter will have a faulty ground connection.
This faulty ground connection will create excessive voltage drop causing
the starter to overheat and fail prematurely. Make sure to clean the starter
mounting surface anytime the starter is removed from the vehicle. Proper
cleaning and maintenance are crucial before installing a replacement starter.

You can avoid these conditions by maintaining a clean and corrosion-free
starter mounting surface. Many of these Ford vehicles are subject to off-road
and rigorous conditions, leading to dirt, salt, oil, and corrosion. Keeping the
engine starter mounting surface clean and free of corrosion is crucial to
having a secure ground connection. A secure ground connection will help your
starter last a lot longer, saving you money and making sure you don’t have to
keep replacing starters.

TECHNICAL SUPPORT

800-228-9672
ASE Certified Technicians are Standing by 7 days a week.

motorcarparts.com
For this and other Part Smart tech articles, Click Here.

