Application: 1999 - 2000 Cadillac Escalade, 1995 - 1999 		
Chevrolet Suburban, 1997 - 2000 Chevrolet Express
Symptom:
Difficult starting, unusual noises when starting, and possible
damaged Starter Nose Cone.
Cause:
The hard start symptoms and starter failure may NOT be
caused by the starter. A faulty crankshaft sensor could be
the culprit.
The Solution:
The crankshaft sensor will need to be replaced, and the
remaining components will need to be inspected for damage.

Hard start symptoms and starter failure may NOT be caused by the starter.
If you don’t hear the typical smooth clicks when starting a vehicle, but you hear a
clanking noise instead, it must be the starter, right?! But what if it isn’t? Although it may
seem like the starter, there could be another culprit. Hard start symptoms and starter
failure may NOT be caused by the starter, but could actually be caused by the crankshaft
position sensor.
Symptoms of a faulty crankshaft sensor can include:
• Backfire during cranking or start-up
• “Kickback” during cranking or startup
• “No” start
• Slow or difficult start/crank
• Grinding or unusual noises during cranking or start-up
• Cracked or broken engine block at the starter boss
• Broken starter drive housing “nose cone”
• Broken starter ring gear on flywheel or flexplate
If your vehicle is experiencing one or more of these symptoms, the crankshaft sensor
may be at fault. A common failure mode of the crankshaft position sensor is allowing

spark advance of up to 50 extra degrees during engine cranking only. This creates higher
cylinder pressure and sometimes “kick back” which can damage the starter housing,
flywheel/flexplate, and/or engine block (where the starter is mounted).
The Fix: The first step is determining whether the crankshaft position sensor is the
cause by running a vehicle diagnostic check. Inspect for a Power Train diagnostic
trouble code (DTC) P0338. This DTC may not always illuminate the “Service Engine Soon
Light.” If the code is stored, the crankshaft position sensor must be replaced, and the
remaining components inspected for damage.
Note: Attempting to replace the starter without properly diagnosing the issue
may result in damage to the replacement starter.

Check out the video for this issue by scanning the
QR code or head to: https://youtu.be/iBbgO3Xikaw

TECHNICAL SUPPORT

800-228-9672
ASE Certified Technicians are Standing by 7 days a week.

motorcarparts.com

