Top 4 Signs Your Starter May Need Replacing
Symptom:
Unusual noises when starting your vehicle, free spinning,
slow, sluggish cranking, and fluid contamination.
Cause:
Problems starting your vehicle, visible fluid contamination of
the starter, and unusual noises when starting your vehicle.
The Solution:
Replace the vehicles starter, repair any leaks that could
contaminate the new starter. Check the battery and battery
cables for any issues that could impair thestarter.

Damaged Starter Drive Gear

Oil-Soaked Starter

Fluid leaks will need to be repaired to prevent premature failure of the replacement Starter.
1) Unusual noises when starting your vehicle - Grinding, clashing,
clanging noises when starting your vehicle often indicate the starter drive
gear is worn out or not engaging properly. If these noises are ignored
it could also result in damage to the engines flywheel. “Click”, “Click”,
“Click”, this type of noise along with no actual cranking of the engine
when attempting to start your vehicle usually indicates a defective starter
solenoid and will require replacement of the Starter. The “clicking” noise
and no -start condition can also indicate a discharged or defective battery,
defective battery cables, or poor electrical connections in the vehicle’s
starting system.
2) Free Spinning - A starter that seems to spin faster than normal and
produces a whining, or ringing sound without the engine actually cranking
when attempting to start the vehicle usually indicates the starter drive gear
is not engaging the engine flywheel and the Starter will need replacing.
3) Slow, Sluggish Cranking - If your Starter seems to spin very slowly, and
the engine seems to “drag” or labor when attempting to start the vehicle

this can also be a good indication the Starter needs replacing. Keep in mind
this can also be a good indication of a discharged or defective Battery, poor
electrical connections in the Starting System, or defective Battery Cables.
4) Fluid Contamination - Because of their location Starters are vulnerable
to Fluid contamination. Leaking engine oil, engine coolant, power steering
fluid, transmission fluid can all cause severe internal damage to Starters.
Evidence of fluid leakage is usually easy to see on the outside of the Starter
and this can indicate what may have caused the Starter to fail. Fluid leaks
will need to be repaired to prevent premature failure of the replacement
Starter.
Check out the video for this issue by scanning the
QR code or head to: https://youtu.be/wj4kRda-hvw

TECHNICAL SUPPORT

800-228-9672
ASE Certified Technicians are Standing by 7 days a week.

motorcarparts.com

