Remanufacturing & Sustainability
MPA’s longstanding commitment to sustainability dates to our founding in
1968. Environmentally sustainable processes were at the core of our business
practices then, just as they are now. Not only does MPA’s comprehensive
clean-tech remanufacturing process produce starters, alternators, and other
components that deliver superior performance and reliability, but it also
makes a significant positive impact in terms of sustainability.
MPA’s eco-friendly manufacturing model relies on reusing and reconditioning
previously used core units that would otherwise be recycled or disposed of.
MPA positively impacts the environment by reconditioning and re-employing
durable components — such as housings, magnets, and stators.
Remanufacturing preserves the energy invested in forging and forming
durable components, an advantage to recycling alone.
By reclaiming and reconditioning these components, MPA also conserves the
energy and materials required to create new parts while delivering units with
the same dependable performance level.
How Remanufacturing Can Counter Climate Change:
Remanufacturing is a process based on refurbishing and reusing previously
manufactured parts rather than producing new ones. The remanufacturing
process conserves the energy embodied in a product and, compared to
traditional manufacturing, requires minimal additional energy. Manufacturing
one new starter, for instance, can demand ten times the amount of energy and
nine times the amount of materials needed to produce a remanufactured one.
Meanwhile, a new alternator requires approximately seven times the amount
of energy and eight times the amount of raw material required to produce
a remanufactured one. It’s been estimated that remanufacturing a starter
or alternator saves up to 95% of the energy needed to produce a new part.
That energy savings translates into lower carbon dioxide output and overall
lower consumption. In fact, by some estimates, remanufactured products
conserve roughly the equivalent of 400 trillion BTUs of energy per year.
The remanufacturing process employed by MPA takes real steps to mitigate
the effects of climate change by drastically reducing the greenhouse gas
emissions normally generated by producing new parts.

The Process:
All units MPA produces are remanufactured to the strictest quality standards,
implementing design enhancements that improve durability.
MPA’s remanufacturing practices are defined by processes unique to each
specific part. Maintained in a proprietary specifications database, all steps are
documented and delivered digitally to the craftspeople in the factories:
• All cores are 100% disassembled
• Component parts are cleaned, remanufactured, and tested
• New replacement components are combined with refurbished parts
We subject all remanufactured components to rigorous multi-phase testing:
• Subassemblies are 100% tested for performance on specialized equipment
before final assembly
• Completed units are 100% End-of-Line tested across a wide range of
operating requirements using proprietary, computer-controlled testers
MPA’s remanufacturing process has been developed and meticulously
refined to ensure that every remanufactured part we produce meets original
equipment build specs and delivers dependable performance right out of the
box . . . and for many thousands of miles to come.

TECHNICAL SUPPORT

800-228-9672
ASE Certified Technicians are Standing by 7 days a week.

motorcarparts.com

